GCP-Study/Study-log/Day3_PubSub.md, before:

Google Cloud Pub/Sub is a messaging service for exchanging event data among applications and services.

Pub/Sub decouple senders and receivers, allowing for secure and highly available communication 
between independently written applications.

Pub/Sub can be used as messaging-oriented middleware and delivery for straeaming analytics pipelines.

* Core concepts of Pub/Sub

1) Topic is a shared string that allows applications to connect with one another through a common thread.

2) Publishers push or publish a message to a cloud Pub/Sub topic.

3) Subscribers make a "subscription" to a topic where they will either pull messages from the subscription
or configure webhooks for push subscriptions.

* Publisher-subscriber relationship

A publisher application creates and sends messages to a topic.

Subscriber applications create a subscription to a topic to receive messages from it.

Communication can be one-to-many, many-to-one, and many-to-many.

* Pub/Sub message flow

Publisher creates a topic in the Pub/Sub service and sends messages to the topic.

A message contains a payload and optional attributes that describe the payload content.

A published message is retained for a subscription until it is acknowledged by any subscriber
consuming messages from that subscription.

Pub/Sub forwards messages from a topic to all of its subscriptions, individually.

* How to use Pub/Sub

1) Go to Pub/Sub and create a topic.

2) Then, you can manually publish message by "Publish Message".

3) Before that, you first need to create at least 1 subscriber.

4) Go to Subscriptions section and create a subscription. (make it subscribe to your newly created topic)

5) After done, go back to Publish Message and publish a sample message.

6) Return to Subscriptions and choose one subscription and pull messages. You will see your sample message.


* Use Pub/Sub while using CLI

1) To create a new topic :

gcloud pubsub topics create [topic name]

2) To publish a new message :

gcloud pubsub topics publish [topic name] --message="message content" --attributes="locale=english, username=gcp"

3) To create a new subscriber :

gcloud pubsub subscriptions create --topic [topic name] [subscriber name]

4) As a subscriber, to pull messages :

gcloud pubsub subscriptions pull --auto-ack [subscriber name]


============================================================


Q14. Your team is working on a messaging app.
As part of application modernization to microservices, you will use Pub/Sub from your App Engine app.

The Cloud Pub/Sub API is currently disabled. 

You are given a service account JSON key to authenticate your application to the API.

But you found that API calls to Pub/Sub are failing.
What do you need to do?

A : On the GCP Console activate the Cloud Pub/Sub API in the API Library.

Because Pub/Sub API needs to be enabled before App Engine can use it.

In order to use the Cloud Pub/Sub API, it needs to be activated in the API library in the GCP console.

By activating the API, the necessary permissions and access will be granted to the service account JSON key provided for authentication.

Commit message:

Weekend study note and some modifications on the existing files

GCP-Study/Study-log/Day3_PubSub.md, after:

### [Source of this study material : GCP Fundamentals for Beginners by Janakiram MSV](https://www.udemy.com/course/google-cloud-platform-gcp-fundamentals-for-beginners/)


Google Cloud Pub/Sub is a messaging service for exchanging event data among applications and services.

Pub/Sub decouple senders and receivers, allowing for secure and highly available communication 
between independently written applications.

Pub/Sub can be used as messaging-oriented middleware and delivery for straeaming analytics pipelines.

* Core concepts of Pub/Sub

1) Topic is a shared string that allows applications to connect with one another through a common thread.

2) Publishers push or publish a message to a cloud Pub/Sub topic.

3) Subscribers make a "subscription" to a topic where they will either pull messages from the subscription
or configure webhooks for push subscriptions.

* Publisher-subscriber relationship

A publisher application creates and sends messages to a topic.

Subscriber applications create a subscription to a topic to receive messages from it.

Communication can be one-to-many, many-to-one, and many-to-many.

* Pub/Sub message flow

Publisher creates a topic in the Pub/Sub service and sends messages to the topic.

A message contains a payload and optional attributes that describe the payload content.

A published message is retained for a subscription until it is acknowledged by any subscriber
consuming messages from that subscription.

Pub/Sub forwards messages from a topic to all of its subscriptions, individually.

* How to use Pub/Sub

1) Go to Pub/Sub and create a topic.

2) Then, you can manually publish message by "Publish Message".

3) Before that, you first need to create at least 1 subscriber.

4) Go to Subscriptions section and create a subscription. (make it subscribe to your newly created topic)

5) After done, go back to Publish Message and publish a sample message.

6) Return to Subscriptions and choose one subscription and pull messages. You will see your sample message.


* Use Pub/Sub while using CLI

1) To create a new topic :

gcloud pubsub topics create [topic name]

2) To publish a new message :

gcloud pubsub topics publish [topic name] --message="message content" --attributes="locale=english, username=gcp"

3) To create a new subscriber :

gcloud pubsub subscriptions create --topic [topic name] [subscriber name]

4) As a subscriber, to pull messages :

gcloud pubsub subscriptions pull --auto-ack [subscriber name]


============================================================


Q14. Your team is working on a messaging app.
As part of application modernization to microservices, you will use Pub/Sub from your App Engine app.

The Cloud Pub/Sub API is currently disabled. 

You are given a service account JSON key to authenticate your application to the API.

But you found that API calls to Pub/Sub are failing.
What do you need to do?

A : On the GCP Console activate the Cloud Pub/Sub API in the API Library.

Because Pub/Sub API needs to be enabled before App Engine can use it.

In order to use the Cloud Pub/Sub API, it needs to be activated in the API library in the GCP console.

By activating the API, the necessary permissions and access will be granted to the service account JSON key provided for authentication.
